Hello, everyone.
So I hope that you all have went through the introduction and the working of the project part.
Well, and in this part we are going to start the coding section of the game in our idea by creating
a new project from scratch.
So after visiting the introduction and working part, you all have a rough idea about what actually
we are going to make in this project.
What are the functionalities we are going to attach in the programme?
What are the like frame designs we are going to put up in the code?
So I hope everything is now like a roughly clear thing.
So now we will like put up things in our organized way to that rough thing, into an organized thing.
So let us start making this project from.
Visual Studio Code Welcome page.
So this is the welcome page of Visual Studio code.
And like installing this IDE and installing JDK part has been already covered previously.
So before starting this project, make sure that you all have already installed this compiler Visual
Studio code for writing the program and also the latest version of JDK to make sure that all the Java
functions like Java programming can be done without any errors.
So I'm hoping that all of you have already installed both of them.
So I am going to start this project by creating a new project, by selecting a location and then starting
the code creation.
Okay, so look at this file icon on welcome page.
We call this as Explorer.
And on clicking on this explorer, we will open up our options tab.
So let me increase the font size for better view.
So I hope that that everything is now clearly visible to the viewers.
Now, on this Explorer tab, we are going to select this create Java project option.
Yes, this blue button, we are going to click.
So on clicking this, we will be open up our input like text field and we have to select from these
options that what are the toolkits we are going to use in our project?
There are several toolkits like Maven, Springboard, Cox Micro Profile and so many other tools in Java
for making Java projects.
But in this project there is no requirement of any other toolkit.
So we will be choosing no build tool options from the like.
This Option Tabs.
So one clicking no build tool option work with source code directly without any build tools.
So we are going to write the source code directly.
Like I already told you, we are going to write the code from scratch, understanding each of the functionalities
and making methods, objects and everything like classes and everything from scratch.
So when selecting this no build tool options, we will open up the file like selection of the project
to select the project location thing and the file chooser your system will open.
And inside this file chooser you have to like select that.
What is the part of the folder you want to keep your project in?
So make sure that you select the project location very carefully.
So after that, if you wish to like reopen it, it did not get like messed up or like you forgot where
the location was.
So to make things like less complex, make sure that you select the project location wisely.
So I am choosing desktop for creating the folder of the project that we are going to move today.
So on clicking desktop and then selecting the project location input tab will again occur like a and
it will ask for a name like input or Java project name.
It is asking for and you have to choose a name for your project and that name could be anything of your
choice.
So suppose like I am naming this game as not like you can name it anything.
I am naming it as noughts crosses and to keep things simple, I am not adding any and or any like punctuation
things.
I am simply keeping the folder name as noughts crosses and on hitting enter.
We will land up to a new project like folder will be automatically open.
So I am clicking enter and you will see what happens.
So I click that tab and this new window open.
So closing this we are here in our project window and there are several inbuilt files and folders inside
this noughts and crosses project.
So Dot Nest and dot vs code are folders like in which folders which are already like in folders.
Whenever we create a Java project in Visual Studio code, also live in RC are the inbuilt folders of
our new Java project and the most important folder here which is already appearing is RC folder.
Every important file of this code, like all the functional part of this code, is going to be stored
inside this Z folder only.
So there are no important folder folders other than this SLC folder.
This ASIC folder is already creating our Java file and inside this file there are like already a classmate
and the class name is app and this thing is going to like execute when there is any of exceptions arise.
Then the application which we are going to make.
So suppose that there are some bugs in the applications and the like the compiler wants you to like
the compiler will how the compiler will let you know that.
Some exceptions in your code, like go and debug your code and then again try to run it.
So this is our special feature that we have in Java.
Like we have our exception and throwing function which will throw exception whenever there is a runtime
error in your program.
So now after covering this after Java file present in the sources folder, now we are going to create
our actual file which is going to be required to like made, which is actually responsible for the testing
and running of the application.
And let me choose a name for the file.
Like I would like put the name of the file or similar to the name of the folder which I have choose.
And the file name is going to be noughts and crosses, so there would not be any pronouns, punctuation
thing.
So I named the file as not closest dot java and on hitting enter we will land up to the window of like
that file.
So we have created a class, a public class called not process.
And inside this we are going to write the actual program which is required for the functioning of this
application.
So in, in the initial steps for this project, we have to declare some of the variables like inside
class.
We have objects, we do not have variables.
We call them objects.
And objects are real world entities which we already know.
So inside this class we are going to initialize some of the objects required file making this project.
So in the beginning we are bothered about like creating the frame inside which the consistence of this
project are going to be placed.
So a private j frame.
Private jet frame and let us name the frame as simply frame.
So this is the object of the frame which we are going to like make.
And firstly, we have to import some of the libraries inside which J frame is consistent.
So for the importing frame, we are going to import Java X swing and inside swing we are going to like
call it g frame.
So let us write first this and then inside the j string we are going to import J frame P s.
So we have imported the frame inside our applications and you can see that there are no letters anymore,
after which we are also going to like initialize other variables required.
So private text field is the next object g text field.
Yes it is.
And that text field is going to be responsible for counting the score of x like we have to place x and
or and the second j text field is going to be responsible for counting the score.
So, oh, so replacing it with O'Hare and after which we have to like initialize two integer objects
for counting the scores of like x and all so private end.
But I didn't and x can't and we will initialize that count to zero in beginning as initially there are
no scores with any of the players so zero.
And similarly for like we have to change the variable we can't put same name for two objects and in
the similar way for oh.
So we have successfully created integer objects for storing the scores.
Like initially the scores are zero and it will be updated in order we will write, we will like play
the game and we have a separate function for updating that score also after which we have to like initialize
a string.
It will be responsible for starting the game.
So initially the string is going to be so private string and the string is initially start of the game.
So at the start of the game we will call it start game and we will set it to X like we have already
discussed about it that by default the starting player is going to take the symbol X for playing his
or her chance.
And we have to enclose this string inside double quotes.
And here we are, after which we have like nine blocks, three into three grid for each of the chances
to be played.
So we have to like declare we have nine blocks for each chance, so we have to declare nine integer
objects for storing the chances of players.
So private int, suppose we have block one in the beginning and initially like all the blocks are set
to ten.
And after which we have to copy it.
Nine times and then will change.
One, two, three, four thing.
So changing this 1 to 2.
So you may be wondering, that's why we initialize these.
We want to be nine variables to ten.
Like there are three in into three grid layout.
So we can't set anything less than ten.
We cannot set anything between 1 to 9.
Otherwise the values between the blocks will like overlap over one another and it will become difficult
to handle each of the blocks individually.
So we are setting value ten.
Initially, we can take any value greater than nine.
It does not make any difference.
But yes, do not take any integer between 1 to 9.
Now similarly there is an integer I like.
This is going to be the iterator for moving between the blocks.
We will see it later.
So yes.